We must not dissociate the lesser pelvis from the renal system.
They are connected in their development.
We have this mesodermal formation from my primitive streak.
And I will have a tissue called the somatic plate.
And this somatic plate is what will give rise to the somites,
sclerotome, myotome, dermatome.
Here, the lateral plate, you see,
will later form what we call this splanchnic somatopleure.
Here, we have an intermediate plate.
All this tissue here will give rise to the renal system.
It is in this intermediate plate that, among other things, the excretory and even urogenital tissue will originate.
Already, we have all the potential.
The kidney is a tissue that formed by compression.
generated by flexion, which is a concentration of mesoderm.
An intermediate mesoderm.
The neural tube, here I have my notochord, I have my somites,
with already the dermatome, the sclerotome.
Here, we have something very important, my aortas.
The intermediate plate, which has now advanced,
it was open, but now it's closed here,
on its axis of...
longitudinal, the tissue, by the movement of approximation of my aortas, by the
growth
of my neural tube, causes a longitudinal compression movement
and an endorotation movement
in the longitudinal axis. But
it's not a rotational movement
like that, it's a movement.
Like this, it's an endorotation torsion.
This tissue, in its embryonic memory, receives compression
and a rotational movement.
It's a tissue that we revitalize by compression.
First biodynamic information, developmental kinetics,
it's a concentration of mesoderm generated by flexion
and by this movement of approximation, the plate.
intermediate
posterior
of the posterior parietal peritoneum
will have a movement
like this
by this movement
in this crest
appears
a canal
and this small canal
will be called
the ductus
mesonephric
a collecting duct that will form
so at the beginning of the 5th
week the embryo will lengthen, we will gradually observe a larger
fold
in relation to the coelom here and in relation to the face and large folds
we
distinguish an organized rotation by the approximation of my aortas on
the median
line compression rotation, this is the first information in the
mesoderm, this shows a repositioning of the system that we will see in detail, we
see this again on a sagittal section
kidney, in its developmental phase, builds from cranial to
caudal. So
that means that the first part of the kidney is called the pronephros and it develops
almost at the cervical level. Then there will be a second part that will develop
that we will call the mesonephros. And then there will be a third part
that will
develop that we will call the metanephros. Each part
in this developmental phase
allows the emergence of something that will be taken up later
in the kidney.
This cervical part, this pronephros,
very quickly, it will just emit a small collecting duct that we will see,
it will disappear,
then there will be a second kidney
that will begin a kidney
functional,
which will be the mesonephros,
then it will disappear,
and then a third kidney will appear.
which will be a metanephric kidney
which will be induced by a ureteric bud,
which we will explain,
and which will form the definitive kidney.
So it's a cranio-caudal sequence of development.
I put myself here, this is pronephros,
meso-metanephros.
The first impulse movement of the intermediate plate,
it's a tissue that is compressed,
so to speak,
by the differential growth between the neural tube and the aorta and which compresses
So, the position to start working on the kidneys is like this.
Here, I can already feel things happening in its history.
We need to review this on an embryo.
It develops cranially to form a collecting duct.
Then, I have a second part that will form the secondary kidney which begins to
make a
with the aorta and the first glomeruli to form a first functional kidney.
This is not the definitive kidney, which will still emit things
and which will be taken up for the terminal part, the metanephros.
Initially, we will see, the adrenal glands are enormous
and therefore follow this phase later.
But the kidneys do not ascend, it is the posterior part that descends faster.
And so, that means that we will at some point take the sacrum and the kidney as
a reference point.
And so, it will be the kidney that will be the fulcrum for the development of the posterior part.
Initially, we have a cranio-caudal developmental sequence.
Pronephros, mesonephros, metanephros.
Error in this drawing, they do not appear at the same time.
it compresses from top to bottom.
This is the primitive kidney which will actually generate a small primitive collecting duct
here,
which will be taken up in the second kidney of the mesonephros with a mesonephric duct,
you see here, which we will see,
and then the third part which will be the definitive kidney which we call the metanephric kidney.
In this image, this, in fact, does not exist.
It is still an undifferentiated mesodermal plate.
But to have this, I first need this first small system,
and it's still a bit cervical, and it almost follows the path of a meridian, of the bladder.
We will see the whole system of a small canal that will develop here.